Add 1.5 release notes (#433)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-09-05-release-notes-1.5/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 1.5 Lima"
author:
  name: "Karolina Zydek, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.5.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-15"
---

> Our next, sunny stop - Lima may falsely suggest that the Kyma crew eased off a bit in the last few weeks and got carried away by the relaxing summer atmosphere. Nothing further from the truth. Kyma 1.5 Lima brings quite a few interesting changes. Above all, we ensured that all Kyma components are compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. We also provided Namespace-level addons configuration and added the experimental function controller module that is based on Knative. Read the full release notes for the complete list of improvements offered by the 1.5 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our next, sunny stop - Lima may falsely suggest that the Kyma crew eased off a bit in the last couple of weeks and got carried away by the relaxing summer atmosphere. Nothing further from the truth. Kyma 1.5 Lima brings quite a few interesting changes. Above all, we ensured that all Kyma components are compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. We also provided Namespace-level addons configuration and added the experimental function controller module that is based on Knative. Read the full release notes for the complete list of improvements offered by the 1.5 release.
```

replaced "few" with "a couple of" to avoid repetition

> The primary theme of the 1.5 release may falsely suggest that the Kyma crew eased off a bit in the last few weeks and got carried away by the relaxing summer atmosphere. Nothing further from the truth. Kyma 1.5 Lima brings quite a few interesting changes. Above all, we ensured that all Kyma components are compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. We also provided Namespace-level addons configuration and added the experimental function controller module that is based on Knative. Read the full release notes for the complete list of improvements offered by the 1.5 release.

Reviewer: I must admit I wouldn't use "primary" with "theme" as my first choice. I'd rather go with "main" theme.

Reviewer: Speaking about "themes" - what "theme" are you talking about? I don't think I get it.

Author: ok, I changed that a bit.

> The primary theme of the 1.5 release may falsely suggest that the Kyma crew eased off a bit in the last few weeks and got carried away by the relaxing summer atmosphere. Nothing further from the truth. Kyma 1.5 Lima brings quite a few interesting changes. Above all, we ensured that all Kyma components are compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. We also provided Namespace-level addons configuration and added the experimental function controller module that is based on Knative. Read the full release notes for the complete list of improvements offered by the 1.5 release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main theme of the 1.5 release may falsely suggest that the Kyma crew eased off a bit in the last few weeks and got carried away by the relaxing summer atmosphere. Nothing further from the truth! Kyma 1.5 Lima brings quite a few interesting changes. Above all, we ensured that all Kyma components are compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. We also provided Namespace-level addons configuration and added the experimental function controller module that is based on Knative. Read the full release notes for the complete list of improvements offered by the 1.5 release.
```

Reviewer: I know that you want to be concise in this paragraph but I think that you should make sure to enumerate other features in a very concise manner. Right now the paragraph sounds like we haven't accomplished much in this release cycle and that's not true ;)

Author: Hmm... I simply wanted to gather highlights here. I wouldn't like to repeat what I am writing in the list of all changes.

- [Serverless](#serverless) - New experimental function controller module based on Knative
- [Service Mesh](#service-mesh) - Istio updated to 1.2.4

---

## API Gateway

### Kubernetes-native client registration with the Hydra Maester controller

Our collaboration with ORY that started in the previous release continues with new contribution and functionality. This time around we created the Hydra Maester controller which makes registering OAuth2 clients a fully Kubernetes-native process. The controller listens for instances of the `oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh` custom resource (CR) and registers clients through the Hydra API using the data contained in the CR. The credentials of the registered client are then saved in a Kubernetes Secret. Follow [this](https://github.com/ory/hydra-maester) link to visit the ORY Hydra Maester repository and read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/security/#details-o-auth2-and-open-id-connect-server) document to learn more about the ORY stack implementation in Kyma.

### New API Gateway controller in the Incubator

> Another fruit of the Kyma-ORY collaboration, the API Gateway controller (name subject to change!), is available in the Kyma Incubator. This controller listens for instances of the `gate.gateway.kyma-project.io` CR, manages Istio authentication policies and Oathkeeper rules, and allows you to expose services secured with JWT or OAuth access tokens. Even though this controller is still in the early stages of development and cannot replace the existing Kyma API Gateway, you can install it with your Kyma deployment by uncommenting the appropriate entry on the component list before installing Kyma 1.5. Go to [this](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/api-gateway) Incubator repository to learn more about the controller and read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/root/kyma/#configuration-custom-component-installation) document to learn more about installing selected components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another fruit of the Kyma-ORY collaboration, the API Gateway controller (name subject to change!), is available in the Kyma Incubator. This controller listens for instances of the `gate.gateway.kyma-project.io` CR, manages Istio authentication policies and Oathkeeper rules, and allows you to expose services secured with JWT or OAuth access tokens. Even though this controller is still in the early stages of development and cannot replace the existing Kyma API Gateway, you can install it with your Kyma deployment by uncommenting the appropriate entry on the component list before installing Kyma 1.5. Go to [this](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/api-gateway) Incubator repository to learn more about the controller and read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/kyma/#configuration-custom-component-installation) document to learn more about installing selected components.
```

`/root` here will break the link?

Author: Nope, it should stay this way.

## Application Connector

### Fix for invalid arguments order in the Connector Service header parser

> Previous versions of the header parser incorrectly compared certificate subject's `locality` to the `province` defined in the component's configuration, and certificate subject's `province` to the `locality` environmental variable from the configuration. This could cause bugs. In the new fix, header parser now properly compares subject's `locality` and `province` to their corresponding environmental variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previous versions of the header parser incorrectly compared certificate subject's `locality` to the `province` defined in the component's configuration, and certificate subject's `province` to the `locality` environment variable from the configuration. This could cause bugs. Thanks to the fix available with Kyma 1.5, the header parser now properly compares the subject's `locality` and `province` to their corresponding environment variables.
```

> Previous versions of the header parser incorrectly compared certificate subject's `locality` to the `province` defined in the component's configuration, and certificate subject's `province` to the `locality` environment variable from the configuration. This could cause bugs. Thanks to the fix available with Kyma 1.5, the header parser now properly compares the subject's `locality` and `province` to their corresponding environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previous versions of the header parser incorrectly compared certificate subject's `locality` to the `province` defined in the component's configuration, and certificate subject's `province` to the `locality` environment variable from the configuration. This could cause issues. Thanks to the fix available with Kyma 1.5, the header parser now properly compares the subject's `locality` and `province` to their corresponding environment variables.
```
🐛

Author: 😎

> > **NOTE:** This fix may require generating new certificates as a part of the upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Due to the nature of this fix, you might have to generate new certificates for the connected Applications as a part of the upgrade process.
```

> > **NOTE:** Due to the nature of this fix, you might have to generate new certificates for the connected Applications as a part of the upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Due to the nature of this fix, you may have to generate new certificates for the connected Applications as a part of the upgrade process.
```

Author: Let's do this!

> > **NOTE:** Due to the nature of this fix, you may have to generate new certificates for the connected Applications as a part of the upgrade process.

Author: @janmedrek maybe you can answer those questions?

> > **NOTE:** Due to the nature of this fix, you may have to generate new certificates for the connected Applications as a part of the upgrade process.

Reviewer 3: This is trivial indeed - the only case this occurs is when user manually edits Connector Service deployment's values. If that happens the user will be notified via Connector Service response (mismatching values). Anyways, the most common practice is to set up identical values for Province and Locality fields and thus - this change will most likely not cause any issues regarding certificates.

The upgrade operation is something relevant - we will need to include that, thanks! :)

## Console

### Addons configuration on the Namespace level  

> Before 1.5, it was only possible to configure addons in the whole cluster, for all Namespaces. It meant that if the cluster administrator enabled a new addon, it automatically became available for everyone with access to this Kyma runtime. In the 1.5 version, it is now possible to apply addons configurations in the scope of a single Namespace. This gives cluster administrators more control over integration options and resource consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous Kyma versions, it was only possible to configure cluster-wide addons. It meant that if the cluster administrator enabled a new addon, it automatically became available for everyone with access to this Kyma runtime. In the 1.5 version, it is now possible to apply addons configurations in the scope of a single Namespace. This gives cluster administrators more control over integration options and resource consumption.
```

> In previous Kyma versions, it was only possible to configure cluster-wide addons. It meant that if the cluster administrator enabled a new addon, it automatically became available for everyone with access to this Kyma runtime. In the 1.5 version, it is now possible to apply addons configurations in the scope of a single Namespace. This gives cluster administrators more control over integration options and resource consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous Kyma versions, it was only possible to configure cluster-wide addons. It meant that if the cluster administrator enabled a new addon, it automatically became available for everyone with access to this Kyma runtime. Starting with the 1.5 version, you can apply addons' configurations in the scope of a single Namespace. This gives cluster administrators more control over integration options and resource consumption.
```

Author: thx, I changed that except for "addon's configuration"

![Addons configuration](./addons-configuration.png)

## Documentation

### Improved monitoring tutorials

Based on the existing [`monitoring-custom-metrics`](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/monitoring-custom-metrics) Kyma example and its `cpu_temperature_celsius` custom metric, we have created unified monitoring tutorials. Thanks to them you can see how Kyma applies monitoring tools to manage application metrics. More specifically, these tutorials show how you can observe the custom metric's changing values, create a Grafana dashboard for the metric, and set up a corresponding alerting rule for it.

> Read these tutorials for more details:

Reviewer: How about `Follow these links to see the improved monitoring tutorials` ?

- [Observe application metrics](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/monitoring/#tutorials-observe-application-metrics)
- [Create a Grafana dashboard](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/monitoring/#tutorials-create-a-grafana-dashboard)
- [Define alerting rules](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/monitoring/#tutorials-define-alerting-rules)

### Telepresence guide

> We know how difficult of a task developing and debugging locally can be. That is why we have created a general [guide](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/technicalities#using-telepresence-for-local-kyma-development-using-telepresence-for-local-kyma-development) for local development with Telepresence to make your work faster and your workflow smoother.

Reviewer: I think it'd be nice to extract the link to a guide to a separate sentence so that it's more visible.

### Troubleshooting guides for the Application Connector

We have provided a set of [troubleshooting guides](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/application-connector/#troubleshooting-troubleshooting) that will help you to resolve the most common issues you may encounter when interacting with such components as the Application Gateway, Application Registry, and Connector Service.

## Kubernetes version compatibility

> In the 1.5 release we made sure that Kyma is compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. Nevertheless, it is not supported by automated testing pipelines. The reason is that our testing pipelines currently test Kyma on GKE and AKS, and these managed Kubernetes offerings do not support Kubernetes 1.14 and 1.15. That is why, we keep our automated testing consistent with Kubernetes 1.13 for now, including testing on Minikube. Still, we performed manual tests that confirmed Kyma also works on Kubernetes 1.15.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the 1.5 release, we made sure that Kyma is compatible with Kubernetes 1.15. Nevertheless, it is not supported by automated testing pipelines. The reason is that our testing pipelines currently test Kyma on GKE and AKS, and these managed Kubernetes offerings do not support Kubernetes 1.14 and 1.15. That is why, we keep our automated testing consistent with Kubernetes 1.13 for now, including testing on Minikube. Still, we performed manual tests that confirmed Kyma also works on Kubernetes 1.15.
```

## Service Management

### Separate repository for the Helm Broker

The Helm Broker now has its own [separate repository](https://github.com/kyma-project/helm-broker) in the `kyma-project` organization. We have not changed the location of the related documentation so you can still read about the Helm Broker [here](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/helm-broker/).

### Support authentication methods for addons configurations

> Starting from the 1.5 release, we support fetching addons from repositories that require authentication. you can now pass credentials in a secure way using templates in your repository's URL. For more information, read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/helm-broker/#details-create-addons-repository-authorization) document.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Starting from the 1.5 release, we support fetching addons from repositories that require authentication. You can now pass credentials in a secure way using templates in your repository's URL. For more information, read [this](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.5/components/helm-broker/#details-create-addons-repository-authorization) document.  
```
